ANNO DOMINI
Do you have any food?
I'm very hungry.
Let down your hair.
You do not pass for a boy.
I'm not afraid. travelers spoke in these hills of the hero Robin Hood.
He protects the meek.
No one protects the meek.
and he were no hero.
He observed thrice a day and gave silver to the poor.
And he had the love of Lady Marion.
is that not a hero?
Lady Marion was taken from an old shepherd's tale.
by a storyteller unfortunately drunker than I.
She were the great love of Robin Hood.
Mm-hm
there is no great love for one such as him.
I've known those who met this man.
would you like to know a secret?
I would.
He never prayed once in his life.
These tales spread across the land. lies upon lies.
He were a murderous brigand.
who perhaps cut the throat of a sheriff and a long line of others.
People saw meaning where there was none.
He was not a hero.
he robbed and killed for the joy of it. nothing more.
Those you met.
did they say he felt remorse for his crimes?
I suspect he felt tired.
I would say if you met this villain Robin Hood.
you should make haste away and keep whatever life you have left here.
And forgive our sins
Through Jesus Christ. our Lord.
Amen.
Who was your kin?
William Wainright of Pickering.
From Pickering?
Father?
Grandfather?
You should have bathed.
or waited for the wind to change.
Or kept your weight on your back foot.
That's all.
you did well.
THE DEATH OF ROBIN HOOD
They sing lies.
these foolish common folk.
Lies of his heroism and goodness.
But blood debts are owed.
And generations of his victims hunt him.
For in truth.
None were more wicked and wanton
than the murderous bandit Robin Hood.
And his little John.
Speak to Thomas.
You were hanged in the south.
Will?
They gutted him.
I have no one else to ask.
What happened?
My name is Edward.
Who is Edward?
Met him on the road ten summers ago.
His brother died.
And he were going to grow rye and peas on his brother's land.
No one knew Edward's face.
So I killed him.
Now I am Edward.
And Margaret's a good wife.
It's a good farm.
What happened?
A family on the land found me out.
Took my farm.
Took my Margaret.
Tried to take my life.
I cannot take back alone what is mine.
It's not yours.
It's my family.
I'm tired. John.
Edward.
I'm tired. Edward.
Will be a mighty battle.
One full of stories.
- They're strong.
- Hmm.
They come from an old family.
They say from Viking blood.
There's a story that once their elder father fought a bear.
It will be a mighty battle. Robin.
How many are there?
Four? Five?
Together we can best them.
We'll likely die.
As I was walking. all alone.
I heard two crows mourning
One said to the other.
‘Where shall we gang and dine the day?’
In behind that old turf wall.
I sense there lies a new slain knight.
And nobody knows that he lies there.
But his hawk and his hound and his lady fair.
his hawk. his hound. and his lady fair.
Many a one. for him shall mourn.
But none shall know where he has gone;
Over his white bones. when they are bare.
The wind shall blow for evermore.
Robin.
Bread?
This is a good adventure.
Good adventure.
You remember when we met the Potter.
did we leave him naked or did we kill him?
I tried to tell the story and someone said we left him naked.
I couldn't remember.
You always told it well. Robin.
Why would we leave him naked?
>> I don't know.
We're dressed.
We never met Potter.
What do you mean we never met him?
I mean. that never happened.
It's just a story I heard somewhere.
But if we did meet a Potter. we killed him.
I'd remember if it were a story.
Yeah.
Tell me about your wife.
Margaret.
She's a good woman.
She's a very good woman.
She's pious.
and teaches me prayerfulness.
Paint a portrait.
Paint a portrait?
She has hair that's red.
red like?
red like. fresh blood.
No. not blood. no. no. no.
Something that's red and that's good. like her.
Red like... I don't know...
Like the setting sun?
Hey. like the setting summer sun.
Margaret's a good wife.
With hair that's red like the setting summer sun.
She cares for me.
And I care for her.
Robin. Open lands past the mountains.
Many places to begin again.
I do not aim to begin again.
I am probing death.
Down! Henry!
Go! Henry! RUN. NOW!
Edward!
- Get back!
- No! No!
Henry! get the others!
Edward!
Edward. my love...
Watch out for little margaret.
Don't worry.
Come here. come on.
You're safe. daughter.
Let us pray. Let us pray.
O Lord. our God.
grant us grace.
to desire thee with our whole heart.
Come on. now. pray.
And in finding thee. we may love thee.
And in loving thee.
We will hate those sins from which thou hast redeemed us.
For the sake of Jesus Christ. Amen.
Yes...
Yes. good.
I'm sorry.
That's how it was when I woke.
Cousin
I'm sorry.
The wind between the north and east.
Blowed every chill and cold
Or coldly blew to me at least
My clothes were thin and old
The grass all dropping wet with dew
Lopens their tiny spears
The lowly daisy bendeth too
More lowly with my tears
O luckless youth to sorrow born
Shun son of poverty
The world made game. lay sport and scorn
And grinning infamy
Unequal though my sorrows seems
But great indeed they are
O hear my sorrows for my stream
You'll find an equal there
The land and meadows are no more
The pastures too are gone
The greens. the meadows and the moors
All cut up and gone
We cry to thee. O Lord.
Do thou have mercy upon us.
and grant forgiveness.
O King of heaven. and everlasting Lord.
Receive our prayers which we pour forth.
And grant forgiveness.
Visit the sick. bring forth the captive.
Help the widow. and the orphan.
And grant forgiveness.
We have seen. a departed from we.
Wilt thou. the redeemer of all. save us?
And grant forgiveness.
Have mercy on the penitent.
and wash away the stains of sin.
And grant forgiveness.
Amen.
Please! Please!!
Margaret? Margaret?
No! No!
John! No!
Little john!
Twenty winters ago.
You murdered my cousin.
Walter of Hathersage.
You have murdered my sons. and my grandson.
As wergild (compensation) for the murder.
I accept your life.
And the life of your daughter.
Robin. you will pay for your terrible crimes.
Murderer of mothers. women. and children. now and forever.
No!
No! (Guttaral)
Punishment awaits you. Robin Hood.
You killed my sisters and brothers.
... is waiting for you. Robin Hood.
-Robin.
Robin!
I've heard stories. about a prior hidden away.
There's a prioress there. who's older than anyone can remember.
She has healing magic.
I'll take it.
She'll get you well again.
I've heard incredible stories.
Robin. we must leave you.
They will be hunting us.
Look at the snow.
It's strange for it to fall this late.
But it won't stay long around there.
The long days aren't so great.
He sealed your wounds with fire.
and he did not do a poor job.
You've been here six days.
You have wounds in your abdomen.
ribs. and a leg badly broken.
Do you understand my words?
Where is this?
You're at the priory of St. Clement.
We're a place for you to heal.
Wh- What town?
There is no town.
Do you know the story of Saul?
What?
It goes. there once was a man. Saul.
A breather of menaces against disciples of the lord.
He came to the prince of priests and ousted him letters to Damascus.
To the synagogues.
But if he came across any man or woman of this life.
he should leave them bound in.
That is all we need to do.
Just a few drops.
It was not too painful?
Never enough.
I'm sister Bridgette.
What's your name?
Randolph.
I owe you an apology. Randolph.
What apology?
You begged for me to let you die.
And I did not.
- You said it was right.
- I were with a fever.
No. your fever has passed.
Rest now. Randolph.
We are bodies. covered in scars.
Do you mean anyone of this priory harm?
I do not.
Will any harm follow you here?
It will not.
You will do them no harm.
Now back to the door.
Now open the door.
Go as far as you'd like.
You row yet?
There is a boat on the west shore.
It's alright.
You can stay here if you're helping the orchard.
I am... Not a farmer.
Then do you know how to hunt?
I know how to hunt.
There is some game on this island.
But no. you cannot hunt.
You cannot even draw a bow.
- I can draw my bow.
- It's mostly rabbits.
- Do you know how to trap?
- I know how to trap.
Good.
But no more than 6 traps. or the population will not sustain.
Can you manage 6 traps?
Good.
In the rest of your time. you may help in the orchard.
You are quiet.
I am quiet and slow.
You're quiet. but you need to be slow.
You're a cripple.
And you're a leper.
It is alright to be slow. we are safe here.
That's quite a thing to say. you know that?
I know that because she has made us safe.
Oh your prioress?
She was like us.
She knew great sorrow.
Great pain.
Widowed young.
But through that sorrow. she found the strength to heal us.
No. you do not look like it. been ill.
The prioress once told me a story of the great philosopher -
The greatest philosopher of his time.
One day. his king turned against him.
Threw him in a dungeon. to be tortured and executed.
But in his misery. when he had nothing.
An angel came to the philosopher and spoke to him.
And from her.
He learnt that it did not matter.
if this whole world were misery.
If all he had were death.
Because he had one thing.
that could never be touched or taken.
He had his mind.
And in his mind.
He had god.
It's never too late to find peace.
What are you doing?
I row across every day.
Your friend was strong enough to take you.
others are not. so I ferry them.
- Will you take me across?
- I will not.
You can row yourself -- When you're stronger.
For now. work on the yard tasks. trapping. I hear.
- I will hunt.
- No. you can't hunt.
Leper.
What happened to that great philosopher?
He was tortured and executed. O'course.
'Course.
Summer has come. loudly sing. cuckoo!
Groweth seed and bloweth mead.
And springeth wood anew.
Sing. Cuckoo!
Hey! Hey!
The leper has brought someone.
from the far shore.
Papa's dead.
How is the girl?
Let me show you my trees.
These. are the elder berries.
They harvest late in the summer.
Do they know what you were before this?
Oh you have to favor this side for my hearing.
Pears. harvest just after.
And what were I before this?
Well. a sell sword at best.
Most certainly.
We have a way about us.
You remember the trees?
- Yeah. this is elder berry.
- Wonderful.
Some of them know.
that the prioress doesn't care who we were.
The apples. harvested in the autumn.
Did she. uh. speak of what happened to her?
Well. the prioress is tending to the girl
You should speak with her if you're looking sad.
What were the trees?
Pears. apples. and elder berries.
Wonderful.
This will be your last letting (bleed)
Now. your body still has much healing.
You are tired.
I am.
But I've been tired before.
The child does not sleep.
What happened to her?
Terrible things.
She told your her story?
No. she does not speak.
She does not eat. and she does not sleep.
What is her name?
Margaret.
Who was she?
I met her father. a farmer.
Well. he's dead.
Seems.
- And her mother?
- Uhhh. I think dead.
- How?
- I don't know. It had passed.
Slain?
Perhaps.
You lie very well.
Did the child see?
She could've.
It's too much for a child to see.
I'm sorry for your friend.
Thank you.
Would you like me to pray for him?
As you wish.
What was his name?
Edward.
Be not your heart afraid for
ye believe in god and ye believe in me
In the house of my father. there are many rooms.
And when I make ready for you a place.
I shall come and take thee to myself.
For where I am. he may be also.
And whether I go. he shall know the way.
- She has a knife.
- Margaret.
She stabbed me!
It's alright.
Margaret. it's... it's alright.
It's alright. Margaret. it's alright.
She don't know this island.
There are boar(s) about.
Margaret! Margaret!
Oi.
Give it.
Those men that hurt you.
They know you're here.
What's my name?
Say my name.
Randolph.
That's right.
Who's Little John?
That name is nonsense.
and you should never speak it.
And if you speak it.
a cat will come in at night
and take your tongue.
It's alright.
Go to sleep.
I'll watch the storm.
Come on. lay down.
Close your eyes.
You can sleep.
Sleep.
♪♪♪
Thank you. for bringing her back.
It were nothing.
Do you know the story of this priory?
No.
Within ages before history.
This was a holy site
of the ancient druids.
They worshipped unknown gods.
Worshipped in these woods.
Then the romans came long ago.
and they sensed the magic of this place.
so they built their temples.
Many people upon people sensed it
and they came here to worship.
Countless gods. tribe after tribe.
Who would not even know
how to speak to each other.
Yet we were all pulled to this place.
Do you believe
there is magic in this island?
I believe there's power in it.
And I've seen the power in stories.
They can be used to make
men do terrible things.
And then those
terrible things become stories.
myth stories.
No.
I cannot trust any of them.
We cannot be trusted with them.
Knives cut bread
as well as they do Flesh.
It's a question of balance.
Does balance have
a say?
I think if balance
did not have some say.
We would not be here.
This world would not...be here... and.
And we would not be sharing these words.
and do you ever consider that?
The incredible precision of balance
over such an expansive time.
The balance it takes to
create a word.
any specific word.
That can pass between lips and
be understood by 2 minds.
Randolph.
Thank you.
Not hungry?
No?
- I'll be dying soon.
- How do you know?
- I can feel it inside.
- What does it feel like?
- It feels right.
- There's someone there.
- The waters have been busy.
Stab it around the feet.
little cuts.
Good. other one.
All right.
No.
Yeah.
Good.
No. that's
too down the front.
Not down the belly. Good.
Ah. give it.
Okay. watch this one.
Just like - Just like that.
That's it.
You do the other one.
Okay. that's it. that's it.
that's it. pull.
- You are a brave young man.
- Thank you. sister.
- Are you hungry out there?
- I am. sister.
- Well. Sarah will fix you up a good supper tonight.
Herring stew.
- Herring stew?
- Do you like that?
- Yes.
- Where do you come from. Arthur?
- My family farm toward Keswick.
- Toward Keswick?
- Yes sir.
- Randolph?
- Randolph.
Toward Keswick.
- The leper said you seek
your niece.
- I do.
- You were set upon?
- I was.
- On the road?
- Yes.
- We're safe here.
- Which road?
- The road to Keswick. sir.
- Thank the Lord you survived.
- I do thank the Lord.
- How about honeyed pears after supper
for being so brave?
- Thank you. sister.
- Okay.
Little Margaret.
that man Arthur...
did you ever see him before you
came to the priory?
Margaret?
The men.
the men who hurt your papa.
did you see their faces?
Papa said to run.
Papa stopped praying.
He was angry.
He prayed in his mind.
What's papa's name?
Your papa is your papa.
Bring it here.
Oh. this is fine work.
Oooh.
Oh. you see it favors a bend here.
All right?
Now. you have to balance it
so it bends evenly.
So this part here needs to be thinned.
Alright?
Can you make for me?
Want me to make you a bow?
All right.
Today I remembered a story by a
poet named Acretius.
He wrote on what are called atoms.
Or if you pick apart the trees
and people and stones.
these would be the smallest invisible pieces that make up
everything in creation.
And these atoms are. sailing through the void. and.
well. sometimes for no reason
at all they change their course.
The least amount. not even a hair.
And if it weren't for that.
small.
unpredictable change forcing
the atoms to
cross and weave with each other.
Nothing at all under the heavens would exist.
Yes... Good.
Harder.
That's it. good work.
Grab that one.
Good. there we go!
Good.
Which one do you think. for your bow?
Let's have a look.
Okay.
There we go. uh. They're both good.
Margaret! Margaret!
Come and Play!
Look at that. I slipped over.
- You pout.
- Got you.
Arthur.
Do you know how to trap?
Yes.
Good. we need a strong
hand. Come.
Does your family have land?
Yes.
How many of you are there?
I don't know.
Are you alright?
I am. I am.
Not as young as I
once were.
Could use a hand (to) help us up.
Thank you.
Huh. they delivered to you quite a blow.
- Yes.
- Who did it?
A man. some men.
- Bandits.
- The men were bandits?
- Yes.
- May I look?
Quite a blow.
You're lucky you survived.
- You're a lucky boy.
- Yes.
Should be thankful to
be alive.
Yes.
He used a quarterstaff.
Hmm.
You're lucky he didn't take your head off.
Randolph.
Moses!
The prioress. says to come.
Are you in great pain?
Do you remember the trees?
Pears. apples. and elder berries.
Wonderful.
You know that you're the most important person in little Margaret's life?
Not important.
Think about all the people who's
lives you've crossed.
We were important somehow.
to all of them.
Do you know the story
of Guy of Gisborne?
And Robin hood?
Yes.
They say you killed him.
Did you really behead him?
You are confused. leper.
I will not tell a soul.
But. don't lie to a man
on his death bed.
So. did you really behead him?
He never knew a Guy of Gisborne.
oh. just one of the many tales that passed along.
But I've beheaded all the men.
You really don't remember?
No.
Think about that name.
There were a Guy of Gisborne.
But you did not behead him.
You cut off his ear.
You said.
In another life. you'd share
a drink with him.
Do you remember that?
We seem to have found
another life.
Now. there is one cruelty.
I would ask you to not bring about.
You will guard the orchard. until your due time.
You'll serve the prioress.
And the people of this priory.
past and future.
But at no point in that time.
In those good. and peaceful years...
Will you tell the prioress who you really are.
Why?
Because...
... One of those nameless.
faceless deaths.
in the shadows of your mind...
Were in another life.
Her beloved.
Promise me.
Robin...
Original: Sumer is icumen in. Lhude sing cuccu
Translation: Summer has arrived. loudly sing cuckoo!
Original: Groweþ sed and and bloweþ med.
Translation: Seed grows and meadow blooms.
Original: and springþ þe wde nu.
Translation: And the wood springs [into leaf] now.
Original: Sing cuccu
Translation: Sing. cuckoo!
Original: Awe bleteþ after lomb.
Translation: Ewe bleats after her lamb.
Original: lhouþ after calue cu.
Translation: [the] cow lows after [her] calf.
Original: Bulluc sterteþ. bucke uerteþ.
Translation: [the] bullock leaps. the stag farts.
Original: murie sing cuccu
Translation: Sing merrily. cuckoo!
Original: Cuccu cuccu. Wel singes þu cuccu.
Translation: Cuckoo. Cuckoo. you sing well. cuckoo!
Original: ne swik þu nauer nu
Translation: Never stop now!
Goodbye. Bridgette.
Arthur.
Come.
There's a child on the far shore.
Perhaps it's your niece.
The leper said you sought your
lost niece.
Yes. could it be her?
We shall see.
I do not see signs of anyone.
Now we should wait.
Maybe they will return.
What is your name?
Arthur.
Do not waste time lying to me.
What is your real name?
Godwin.
You are deciding. Godwin.
whether to do the deed yourself
or to fetch your family?
- What deed?
- How many men have you killed. Godwin?
How many children have you killed?
- I've killed so many. I could not give you a count.
The longer than you've been alive.
I've been killing the kin of those
I killed a lifetime ago.
Oh I do not remember the first.
who meant nothing to
me at the time. but...
their brothers and their children.
their grandchildren. they remember me.
So now I must kill them.
Again and again.
In different forms. like shades.
again.
And again. and it never ceases.
It's a curse. Godwin.
And it's one you bring on yourself.
even if done through duty.
It cares not about your duty.
This world cares only about blood.
And blood is all it will give in return.
Do you want to kill a child. Godwin?
Do you want to be responsible
for the killing of a little girl?
No.
Your father's dead?
And your uncle's?
I am the oldest left.
Who else yet lives. Godwin?
My mother.
My aunts.
My sisters.
You have a home. Godwin?
- Yes.
- Go home.
Tell your family all blood debts are paid.
They'll all be paid someday.
Sleep in your own bed.
Hold dear the life you will yet
share with your kin.
And if you return here.
you will have wasted this chance at life
that I give you now.
And I will cut your throat and never think of you again.
Go now.
And do not look back.
I thought you had departed.
I'm Robin the outlaw.
You--you need to know I'm a monster.
I'm not one Randolph.
I am the outlaw. Robin Hood.
I'm sorry...
Tell me I should leave.
I will go now.
Get in the bed.
- Bridget...
- Lie down.
You burned my husband alive.
I dreamed that he was already dead.
but why else did you bar the door?
It felt like a lifetime searching
the ashes of our home.
And he looked so small.
just curled up in the corner
with so much being gone.
But as much as I dream.
I knew he was alive.
Because until the very end.
he had wrapped himself around our children.
Randolph.
It's me.
People speak of Robin Hood.
Tell his stories.
They're all lies.
Lies that I told long ago.
so that fools would
follow me into the dark.
Robin.
What have they done to you?
Don't be afraid.
I will rescue you from this place.
I will rescue little Margaret.
We're going to start a new life together.
Edward.
Tell me about your wife.
My wife.
Margaret.
My wife. Margaret.
Paint a portrait.
Paint a portrait?
She has hair.
Red like.
a setting sun.
Like a setting summer sun.
Red like.
the setting summer
sun.
Robin...
Have you found your right death?
I'm ready to finish it.
I owe this life to you.
It is monstrous.
But I owe this life to you.
You owe me nothing.
I have never taken a life before.
It can be as if pruning a flower.
- Well. it should not be.
- Eh. It should not.
but it can.
I've helped those who come
to this island.
I heal them.
Please.
Heal me.
Little Margaret.
Your father's name were John.
I knew him for many years
before he were your papa.
I met him
Crossing the bridge one day.
All over a rushing river.
He was stubborn.
He would not yield.
Oh. not to any man.
Not even to me.
So we wrestled
on that bridge.
Striking back and forth.
I whacked him on the side of the head.
He struck me in the stomach
and I wobbled on that bridge.
Splash.
He knocked me in me bum.
Once I dragged myself out.
drenched to the bone.
we embraced.
We called your papa Little John
and we lived for many years.
As outlaws. in the greenwood.
We had feasts.
We...
We gave silver
to the meek.
No...
We stole that silver.
We stole it
from
from bad people.
You understand?
Bad people.
Your papa
wouldn't want me to tell you.
Because he loved you so dearly.
You must never tell a soul.
Not even the children you play with.
You must never tell them your papa's name.
There are bad people out there.
And they are angry with your papa.
And so they're angry with you.
Well. can't we keep that secret?
I can keep that secret.
Little Margaret.
Can you?
Good.
Now come beside me.
Take this.
Why were he little?
What?
Why were my papa called little?
Because he was little when I found him.
Like you.
String it.
Bend it with your leg. as you saw me do.
Good.
Now... Go to the window.
Now...
Nock an arrow.
Find a point
where the waters meet the sky.
Hold that arrow to your mouth.
And hold it.
I will tell you when to lose.
But until I do.
You're not letting go.
You're simply not holding on anymore.
watch that target.
Now. watch that target.
Your body will always be moving.
Feel when that arrow will fly through.
You're gonna find a dance.
Hold until I tell you to lose.
You're strong.
Feel.
That sway.
That dance.
Now lose.